# Tools Used in Lab

You'll use two sets of tools in this class: an x86 emulator, QEMU, for running your kernel; and a compiler toolchain, including assembler, linker, C compiler, and debugger, for compiling and testing your kernel. 

## 1.The computer information

I complete the lab with an Ubuntu computer, the details:
- OS: Ubuntu 20.04
- CPU: Intel(R) Core(TM) i5-3230M CPU @ 2.60GHz
- Memory: 12GB

## 2.Compiler Toolchain

A "compiler toolchain" is the set of programs, including a C compiler, assemblers, and linkers, that turn code into executable binaries. You'll need a compiler toolchain that generates code for 32-bit Intel architectures ("x86" architectures) in the ELF binary format.

### 2.1.Test Your Compiler Toolchain

Modern Linux and BSD UNIX distributions already provide a toolchain suitable for Lab. To test your distribution, try the following commands:

```
% objdump -i
```

The second line should say elf32-i386.

```
% gcc -m32 -print-libgcc-file-name
```

The command should print something like /usr/lib/gcc/i486-linux-gnu/version/libgcc.a or /usr/lib/gcc/x86_64-linux-gnu/version/32/libgcc.a

If both these commands succeed, you're all set, and don't need to compile your own toolchain.

If the gcc command fails, you may need to install a development environment. On Ubuntu Linux, try this:

```
% sudo apt-get install -y build-essential gdb
```

On 64-bit machines, you may need to install a 32-bit support library. The symptom is that linking fails with error messages like "__udivdi3 not found" and "__muldi3 not found". On Ubuntu Linux, try this to fix the problem:

```
% sudo apt-get install gcc-multilib
```

## 3.QEMU Emulator

### 3.1.install Emulator

QEMU is a modern and fast PC emulator. QEMU version 2.3.0 is set up on Athena for x86 machines in the 6.828 locker (add -f 6.828)

Unfortunately, QEMU's debugging facilities, while powerful, are somewhat immature, so we highly recommend you use our patched version of QEMU instead of the stock version that may come with your distribution. The version installed on Athena is already patched. To build your own patched version of QEMU:

1. Clone the IAP 6.828 QEMU git repository 

```
% git clone https://github.com/mit-pdos/6.828-qemu.git qemu
```

2. On Linux, you may need to install several libraries. We have successfully built 6.828 QEMU on Debian/Ubuntu 16.04 after installing the following packages: libsdl1.2-dev, libtool-bin, libglib2.0-dev, libz-dev, libpixman-1-dev, and python2.7. 
```
% sudo apt-get install ibsdl1.2-dev
% sudo apt-get install libtool-bin
% sudo apt-get install libglib2.0-dev
% sudo apt-get install libz-dev
% sudo apt-get install libpixman-1-dev
% sudo apt-get install python2.7
```
3. Configure the source code (optional arguments are shown in square brackets; replace PFX with a path of your choice) 
    - `% cd qemu`
    - `% ./configure --disable-kvm --disable-werror --python=/usr/bin/python2.7 --target-list="i386-softmmu x86_64-softmmu"`
    
4. `% make` 

    - Here, you may encounter such problems:
    ```
    /usr/bin/ld: qga/commands-posix.o: in function `dev_major_minor':
    /home/yanghao/qemu/qga/commands-posix.c:633: undefined reference to `major'
    /usr/bin/ld: /home/yanghao/qemu/qga/commands-posix.c:634: undefined reference to `minor'
    collect2: error: ld returned 1 exit status
    make: *** [Makefile:288: qemu-ga] Error 1
    ```
    - You should modify commands-posix.c.
    - `% vim /home/yanghao/qemu/qga/commands-posix.c`
    - Add a code in file header.
    ```
     #include <sys/sysmacros.h> 
    ```

5. `make install`

### 3.2.starup qemu

`qemu-system-x86_64` command for startuping qemu

